## Analysing the Impact of Phone Usage and Physical Activity on Mental Health

Introduction
This a personal project where I decided to analyze the imapct of phone usage and physical activity on my health. In the year 2024, I had to main goals, one to increase my physical activity (number of steps) to 10,000 steps per day and to reduce my phone usage (screen time) to under 3 hours per day. I decided to keep track of these metrics through 2024 and see whether these goals would met. This project is an analysis on that, to see whether the goals were met and also I added an additional layer of my journal entries to see whether my screen time and number of steps also had any impact on my mental health. The assumption was that the reason why I was soending too much time on my phone and not going out was because of depressive symptoms.


The Notebooks
The project has two notebooks, the first notebook (Journal Data Preprocessing, Topic Modelling and Sentiment Analysis) includes code for preprocessing text-based journal data, focusing on dates and entries. It applies topic modeling using popular methods such as LDA, NMF, and LSA from the scikit-learn library. Additionally, sentiment analysis is performed using the VaderSentiment package. The resulting output file contains sentiment categories and scores, which will serve as input for the mental health analysis notebook. The second notebook. The text file with the journal entries was not made public because it is personal information. However, the sentiments and sentiment scores that were obtained from the sentiment analysis, I have made available for use. The second notebook (Impact of Phone Usage and Physical Activity on Mental Health) contains the exploratory data analysis done on the three main variables: screen_time, steps and sentiments, the merging of all the variables into one dataset and the data modelling to predict a sentiment score based on the screen_time and steps.
